title: Why Facebook Matters - Stats, Numbers, Web OS vs. Desktop OS, News 
gradient-colors: #0e1f5b #3b5998


h1. Facebook Profile Questions - Ice Breakers

* Are you on Facebook?
* How many apps have you installed on Facebook? Zero? Less than Five? Five+? Ten+?
* Name your two top (recommended) Facebook apps
* Why? Fun? Utility? Other?

* Have you already developed a Facebook app? In PHP, Ruby, Java, C#.NET, Python?

Sample:

* No / Zero   
* Fifty+ / Pirate vs. Ninja, What Disney Princess Are You? / Fun
* Five+ / WordPress, Twitter / Utility


h1. What's Facebook?

* Facebook is "Addictive"
* Facebook is "So, Distracting, Companies Must Ban It"
* Facebook is "God's Gift to Developers"
* Facebook is "Nirvana for Direct Marketers"
* Facebook is the first "Word of Mouse" Engine
* Facebook is "Bloomberg Terminal for Your Life"
* Facebook is the "Lowest Cost Customer Acquisition Vehicle on the Planet"

Source: Adonomics - Why Facebook Is Worth $100 Billion


h1. Facebook Stats

* More than 70+ million active users
* More than 200,000+ new registrations/day since January 2007
* Users spend on average 20 minutes/day on Facebook (Source: comScore)
* #1 photo sharing site on the Web (Source: comScore)
* More than 14 million photos uploaded/day
* More than 6 million active user groups

Source: "Facebook Statistics":http://www.facebook.com/press/info.php?statistics


h1. Canadian Facebook Stats

More than 8+ million Facebookers (top outside the US followed by 8+ in the UK)

Metros/Networks

* Greater Toronto Metro, Ontario - 1,161,114 Facebookers
* Greater Vancouver Metro, British Columbia - 703,382 Facebookers
* Greater Montreal Metro, Quebec - 591,215 Facebookers
* Greater Calgary Metro, Alberta - 383,558 Facebookers

Canadian University Networks

* University of British Columbia (UBC) - 31,595 Facebookers
* Simon Fraser University (SFU) - 24,142 Facebookers
* University of Victoria (UVic) - 16,416 Facebookers
* University of Toronto (UofT) - 57,360 Facebookers

Source: "Facebook Networks":http://www.facebook.com/networks/networks.php (Apr/14/2008)


h1. Facebook vs. MySpace

Facebook:

* One Person - One Profile (No Multiple Personas Allowed)
* No Fake or Anonymous Profiles Allowed

MySpace (100+ Million Profiles):

* One Spam King - 500,000 MySpace Profiles
* Fake and Anonymous Profiles Allowed - William Shakespeare, Hamlet, Chair, Butter, etcetera



h1. Facebook Apps

* 20,000+ apps
* 100+ new apps/day added
* More than 95% of Facebookers installed (and used) at least one Facebook app

Top Categories

* Just for Fun Applications (9000+) - Top Friends, Movies, Likeness, Scrabulous, Graffiti, Vampires
* Gaming (2400+) - Scrabulous, Texas HoldEm Poker, (fluff)Friends, PetrolHead, Oregon Trail, WarBook
* Sports Applications (1900+) - Sport Bets, Hockey Pool, Premier League Picks, Toronto Maple Leafs Fans
* Utility Applications (1800+) - Bumper Sticker, Advanced Wall, Cities I've Visited, Where I've Been, Books iRead

More Categories

Education (1600+), Dating (1500+), Music (1100+), Events (900+), Business (900+), Money (300+) and many more

Source: "Facebook Application Catalog":http://www.facebook.com/apps

h1. Best of the West - Top Facebook Apps Made in British Columbia

# Scratch and Win (Backstage) / 449,900 / 71,984 (16%)
# Hockey Pool (Ben Nevile) / 347,793 / 48,691 (14%)
# Are You Normal? (Kinzin) / 572,300 / 5,723 (1%)
# I'm Reading (Garth Shoemaker) / 61,400 / 614 (1%) 
# Hockey Pool Pro (Jason Bailey, $uper Rewards) / 20,300 / 203 (1%)
# The Snow Report (Jeremy Holland and Dean Halford ) / 18,200 / 182 (1%)
# Eat-A-Rama (ActiveState) / 17,800 / 30 (0%)
# Green Gifts (Social Signal) / 7,400 / 74 (1%)
# These Are My Kids (Kinzin) / 4,200 / 126 (3%)
# Mixx Maker (Project Opus/Donat Group) / 1,000 / 20 (2%) 

Source: "Vancouver Ajax & Web 2.0 (3.0) Developer Group":http://vanajax.com

"Adonomics Chart - Scratch and Win / Are You Normal? / Hockey Pool":http://adonomics.com/display/5274916578+2389617504+5173067945


h1. Facebook Developers

* More than 300,000+ Facebook Developers World Wide
* Vancouver Facebook (& Social Network) Developers Group (200+)

Facebook Developer Garage Events Around the World:

San Francisco, New York, Boston, Toronto, Vancouver, London, Singapore, Sydney
 and in many more cities (Source: Facebook Developer Garage Calendar)

* "Vancouver's 1st Facebook Developer Garage":http://barcamp.org/FacebookCampVancouver2007
* "Vancouver's 2nd Facebook Developer Garage":http://barcamp.org/FacebookCampVancouver2008


h1. Facebook App Analytics / Stats - Adonomics Leaderboard

* There are 886,320,511 installs across 21,822 apps on Facebook with over 200,000 developers currently evaluating the platform.
* These applications were used 34,175,797 times in the last 24 hours and have a combined valuation of $428,182,197..

h3.  Top Facebook Applications

"Adonomics Facebook Application Leaderboard":http://adonomics.com/leaderboard/apps

Metrics:

* Installs
* Active Users (%)
* Valuation (Estimated) in $$$


h1.  Graphical OS vs. Social OS

Windows OS vs. Facebook OS / Desktop OS vs Web OS

h3. Founders

Harvard drop-out and his former roommate
vs.
Harvard drop-out and his former roommate

h3. Initial Launch

1984 vs. 2004

h3. Critical Mass Achieved

1995 vs. 2007

h3. Competitors

Digital Research's GEM, IBM's OS/2 Presentation Manager, VisiCorp's VisiON, Sun xWindows, Apple's Mac

vs.

MySpace, LinkedIn, Orkut, Friendster, OpenSocial


h3. Focus

* Windows SDK à Developers / Developers / Developers!!!
* 80,000 employees
* 4+ million 3rd party developers

vs.

* F8 Platform à Developers / Developers / Developers!!!
* 450 employees
* 200,000+ 3rd party developers

h3. Lock-in

OEM PC companies bundled Windows; Developers' apps and API knowledge; Consumer investment in apps, file system and user interface

vs.

Consumer investment in Profile Data, Notes, Photos, e-Mail history, Groups, Apps, and Friend Network; developers' apps and API knowledge

h3. Killer Apps

Word, Excel, Powerpoint, Access, Outlook, Browser

vs.

Photos, Events, Friends, Newsfeed, Inbox, Groups, Profile Page
Calendar, Dining, Travel, Gifting, Shopping, Turn-based Games, Super Groups


Source: Adonomics - Why Facebook is Worth $100 Billion



h1.  Web Site Registration vs. Facebook App Install

h3. User Actions Required to Accomplish Registration

Select Registration Button, Enter E-mail, Enter & Re-Enter Password, Enter other app related profile data

vs.

Select Add Application, Select Continue

h3. Source of New Users

Cost Per Click Advertising (typically $0.25 to $1.00 to get a visitor), Cost Per Impression Advertising, Search Engine Optimization, PR, Offline Advertising, Blogs

vs.

Friend Invites, Friend Newsfeeds


h3. Site Reminders

Bookmarking (<1%)
vs.
Profile page

h3. Post Registration Marketing Methods

e-mail

vs.

e-mail, newsfeed, profile page, friends' interactions

h3. Hurdles to Re-using Site/App

Remember e-mail/password
vs.
Find app/icon on Profile Page and Click

Source: Adonomics - Why Facebook is Worth $100 Billion

h1. Tracking Facebook News

Facebook Blogs/News

* "All Facebook Blog":http://allfacebook.com
* "Inside Facebook Blog":http://insidefacebook.com

Facebook Blogs/News in and around Vancouver, B.C.

* "Vancouver Ajax & Web 2.0 (3.0) Developer Blog":http://vanajax.com