%%%%%%%
% Slide Show Headers

title: Tagging & Tag Clouds Made Easy

%%%%%%%%%%%%%
% Slides Start Here

h1. Tagging & Tag Clouds Made Easy

Agenda

* Tags, Tag Clouds, Folksonomy - Glossary
* Tag Clouds in the Wild
* Why? Share. Tag. Discover.
* Add Tags To Your Web App in 1-2-3 Steps
* Add Tag Clouds To Your Web App in 1-2-3 Steps
* Plugin Optimizations & Options
* Rails Tagging Plugin Choices


h1. Tags, Tag Clouds, Folksonomy - Glossary

Tags - Quick & Easy Free-Style Keywords

Tag Clouds - Listing of Most Popular Tags - More Popular Tags Usually Shown in Bigger Font Size or Deeper Color

Folksonomy - Self-organizing non-hierarchical cataloging/classification system using free-style keywords (also known as tags)

h3. Web 1.0/3.0 - Web 2.0

Category != Tag

Taxonomy != Folksonomy

Tag == Label, Keyword, Category (?)


h1. Tag Clouds in the Wild

* "Delicious Bookmark Tag Cloud":http://del.icio.us/tag
* "Flickr Photo Tag Cloud":http://flickr.com/photos/tags
* "LibraryThing Book Tag Cloud":http://www.librarything.com/tagcloud.php
* "WordPress Blog Posting Tag Cloud":http://wordpress.com/tags

h1. Why? Share. Tag. Discover.

Tagging Examples

* Location: burnaby gastown yaletown granville ubc stanleypark
* Events: northernvoice groovyvan vanrb barcampvancouver vanajax
* Ratings: <code>*</code> (1 Star) <code>**</code> (2 Star) <code>***</code> (3 Star) <code>****</code> (4 Star) <code>*****</code> (5 Star)

Discover Examples

* "Latest Bookmarks About Rails":http://del.icio.us/tag/rails
* "Most Popular Bookmarks About Rails":http://del.icio.us/popular/rails
* "Latest Blog Posts Tagged Vancouver":http://wordpress.com/tag/vancouver
* "Latest Photos Tagged Vancouver":http://flickr.com/photos/tags/vancouver
* Discover Related Tags and much more

h1. Wikipedia Tagging Related Terms Tag Cloud

<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tag_(metadata)">Tag (metadata)</a>
"Tag Cloud":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tag_cloud
"Social Bookmarking":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_bookmarking
"Folksonomy":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Folksonomy
"Taxonomy":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxonomy
"Web 2.0":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_2.0
"Web 3.0":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_3.0
"Semantic Web":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_web 

h1. Add Tags To Your Web App

Step 0: Install Taggable Plug-In

Step 1: Add Database Tables (Tags, Taggings)

Step 2: Mark Your ActiveRecord Classes (Bookmark, Photo, Book etcetera) As Taggable

Step 3: That's it.


h1. Step 1 - Add Database Tables (Tags, Taggings)

The Tags Table

{{{
create_table :tags do |t|
  t.column :name, :string  # The tag name
end
}}}

The Taggings (Polymorphic Join) Table

{{{
create_table :taggings do |t|
   t.column :tag_id, :integer       # foreign key; id of the tag
   t.column :taggable_id, :integer  # foreign key; id of the taggable object
   t.column :taggable_type, :string # taggable object type (bookmark, photo, book, etcetera)
   t.column :created_at, :datetime  # timestamp
end
}}}


h1. Step 2 - Mark Your ActiveRecord Classes As Taggable

{{{
class Photo < ActiveRecord::Base
  acts_as_taggable
  ...
end
}}}

h3. Methods Added To Your ActiveRecord Model Classes

* tag_list
* find_tagged_with( tags, options = {} )
* tag_counts( options = {} )

Get Tags:

{{{
>> p = Photo.find(:first)
>> p.tag_list.to_s

=> "wedding vancouver summer"
}}}

Store Tags:

{{{
>> p = Photo.find(:first)
>> p.tag_list = "wedding vanouver summer"
>> p.save
}}}

Add or Remove Tags:

{{{
>> p.tag_list.add( "fun" )
>> p.tag_list.remove( "wedding" )
}}}

Find Photos Tagged With:

{{{
>> photos = Photo.find_tagged_with( 'summer' )
}}}

Note: You can use options such as @:order@, @:limit@, @:offset@, etcetera

Get Tag Counts for Tag Cloud:

{{{
>> tags = Photo.tag_counts
}}}


h1. Add Tag Clouds To Your Web App

Step 1: Add the Tag Cloud Helper to your App

Step 2: Write the Controllers and Views

Step 3: That's it.


h1. Step 1: Add the Tag Cloud Helper to Your App

@public/stylesheets/cloud.css@:

{{{
.cloud1 {font-size: 100%;}
.cloud2 {font-size: 120%;}
.cloud3 {font-size: 140%;}
.cloud4 {font-size: 160%;}
.cloud5 {font-size: 180%;}
.cloud6 {font-size: 200%;}
.cloud7 {font-size: 220%;}
}}}

@app/helpers/application_helper.rb@:

{{{
def tag_cloud( tags )
  classes = %w(cloud1 cloud2 cloud3 cloud4 cloud5 cloud6 cloud7)

  max, min = 0, 0
  tags.each { |t|
    max = t.count.to_i if t.count.to_i > max
    min = t.count.to_i if t.count.to_i < min
  }

  divisor = ((max - min) / classes.size) + 1 

  tags.each { |t|
     yield t.name, classes[(t.count.to_i - min) / divisor]
  }
end
}}}

h1. Step 2: Write the Tags Controller and View

@app/controllers/tags_controller.rb@:

{{{
class TagsController < ApplicationController
  def index
      @tags = Photo.tag_counts( :order => "name" )
  end
end
}}}

@app/views/tags/index.rhtml@:

{{{
<%% tag_cloud @tags do |name, css_class|  %>
      <%%= link_to name, {:action => :tag, :id => name},
            :class => css_class %>
<%% end %>
}}}


h1. Plugin Optimizations & Options

Create Database Index for Taggings Table

{{{
add_index :taggings, :tag_id
add_index :taggings, [:taggable_id, :taggable_type]
}}}

Add Cached Tag List Table Column

{{{
t.column :cached_tag_list, :string   # tells plugin to cache taglist
}}}

Tag Seperator/Delimiter

{{{
TagList.delimiter = " "  # use space or comma
}}}

h1. Rails Tagging Plugin Choices

* @acts_as_taggable@ Gem by Dirk Elmendorf
* @acts_as_taggable@ Plugin by David Heinemeier Hansson (Prototype - Not Production Ready)
* @acts_as_taggable_on_steroids@ Plugin by Jonathan Viney
* @acts_as_taggable_redux@ Plugin by Wesley Beary
* @scalable_acts_as_taggable@ Plugin by Matthew Carr
* @has_many_polymorphs@ Plugin

h1. Free Online Articles and Chapters About Tagging

* Oracle Tech Net Article: "Tagging with Oracle and Ruby on Rails":http://www.oracle.com/technology/pub/articles/kern-rails-tagging.html by Matt Kern (June 2007)
* Practical Rails Social Networking Sites Book by Alan Bradburne (June 2007): Free Sample Chapter 10 - "Adding Tags to the Photo Gallery":http://www.apress.com/book/view/1590598415

h1. That's it - Thanks!

{{ google_analytics :code => 'UA-397343-10' }}

